# Singapore-Resale-Flat-Prices-Predicting
This project is to develop a machine learning model and deploy it as a user-friendly web application that predicts the resale prices of flats in Singapore. This predictive model will be based on historical data of resale flat transactions, and it aims to assist both potential buyers and sellers in estimating the resale value of a flat.
I have done this project in VSCode and installed the necessary packages and created a new environment to work on this project.
To start this project, I have downloaded the five different datasets and the data source is the official Singapore Housing Development Board (HDB) dataset, which contains historical resale flat transaction data provided by the team GUVI.
I have merged those different datasets of different timelines by doing preprocessing like cleaning, handling missing values, and standardizing the column names etc.
Moving forward, to proceed with further processing to the merged dataset. I have selected relevant features such as floor_area_sqm, flat_type, town, storey_range, flat_model, age_of_flat, and remaining_lease_months are selected in this step for feature engineering.
In this step of Feature Engineering, each categorical column (flat_type, town, storey_range, and flat_model) is separately encoded using OneHotEncoder and encoded features are added back to the dataset with descriptive column names.
After the completion of Feature Engineering, the dataset is saved for Model Selection and Training.
Chosen Random Forest Regression as an appropriate machine learning model for Model Selection and Training amongst the other regressions like linear regression and decision trees to train the model on the historical data, using a portion of the dataset for training.
The model has been trained in the Encoded Categorical Feature (Town, Storey, Range, Flat Model, Flat Type) and Numerical Features (Floor Area(sqm), Remaining Lease(months), Age of Flat(Years)) with Resale Price being the predicted value.  
Model Evaluation of Random Forest Regression model also performed the best with the lowest MAE and RMSE, and the highest R-squared value, indicating that it can capture complex relationships in the data effectively.
And finally, the streamlit app is built to predict the resale price of flats using a trained Random Forest regression model, are used to map user-selected categorical input values to the encoded numerical format and the encoded values are passed as features to the model for making predictions.
Using the trained Random Forest regression model and the encoders, the Streamlit app is structured with 7 user inputs like Town, Storey, Range, Flat Model, Flat Type, Floor Area(sqm), Remaining Lease(months), and Age of Flat(Years) where users can select the input features and the resale price is being predicted after clicking on the 'Predict Resale Price' Button.
